site/assignments/r3.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Research Summary 3
root: "../"
---
[Back to "Assignments"](index.html)

##Assignment Overview

Write a one-page (8.5x11) paper summarizing and then commenting the perspective and bias found in a specific source you discovered during your research. Put your name in the top left hand corner and list the author's name and the full citation information of the piece you're summarizing; set margins at 1 inch, spacing at single, and font at 12 pt.  Do not exceed a page in length. 

##Summary Section

The first part of your summary should be a concise but thorough summary of the position this source is advocating. Stay as close to the text as possible, quoting the author's exact words at times to tie both you and your readers to the original text itself—cite page numbers for any quotations in parentheses after the quote (just the page numbers; no pp. or p.). Your aim is to hand over to your readers your understanding of WHAT this text is arguing for. Phrases such as "Smith says/notes/states," or "according to Bell," etc. will help you designate what is called intellectual property. You will not have room to cover all the points an author makes, so you will need to synthesize the information for us, tell us what position the author is advocating and then offer quotes from the text itself to demonstrate (to show us) that the author is arguing what you say s/he's arguing. In this first section, do not offer your own comments, opinions, arguments about what the text says, and do not analyze the writing, either. Stick to content: What is the author saying in this text? What position is s/he advocating?

##Comments Section

The second part of your summary should be a discussion of the author’s bias.  A bias is a perspective that affects how people see an issue.  Of course, everyone will have an opinion, but bias is separable from opinion.  An author’s bias is his/her particular viewpoint, related to a range of things such as: political beliefs, community investment, place of residence, employment, age, or religion.  S/he may believe that we should ban plastic bags (an opinion), and s/he may belong to the Sierra Club (indicating an environmentalist bias).  Someone may believe that Texas should allow natural gas exploration with minimal regulation (an opinion), but s/he may work for British Petroleum (indicating a pro-corporate bias).  

To the best of your ability, explain what bias this author demonstrates in his/her writing. How can you identify the author’s bias?  Consider, for instance, the following as indications of bias:
* Author: Who is the author? What is their stake in making this argument?  
* Audience and Publication: Who is this written for? Where is this published? What does that tell you, if anything, about the perspective?  

Explain also, how this bias comes forth in the writing.  In the article itself, you might look at:
* Alternative views: How, if at all, does the author recognize and address opposing viewpoints?  
* Language: Does the author use language that indicates one side of a viewpoint?

Commit message:

i haven't done this in months apparently

site/assignments/r3.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Research Summary 3
root: "../"
---
[Back to "Assignments"](index.html)

##Assignment Overview

Write a one-page (8.5x11) paper summarizing and then commenting the perspective and bias found in a specific source you discovered during your research. Put your name in the top left hand corner and list the author's name and the full citation information of the piece you're summarizing; set margins at 1 inch, spacing at single, and font at 12 pt.  Do not exceed a page in length. This should be about 500 words

##Summary Section

The first part of your summary should be a concise but thorough summary of the position this source is advocating. Stay as close to the text as possible, quoting the author's exact words at times to tie both you and your readers to the original text itself—cite page numbers for any quotations in parentheses after the quote (just the page numbers; no pp. or p.). Your aim is to hand over to your readers your understanding of WHAT this text is arguing for. Phrases such as "Smith says/notes/states," or "according to Bell," etc. will help you designate what is called intellectual property. You will not have room to cover all the points an author makes, so you will need to synthesize the information for us, tell us what position the author is advocating and then offer quotes from the text itself to demonstrate (to show us) that the author is arguing what you say s/he's arguing. In this first section, do not offer your own comments, opinions, arguments about what the text says, and do not analyze the writing, either. Stick to content: What is the author saying in this text? What position is s/he advocating?

##Comments Section

The second part of your summary should be a discussion of the author’s bias.  A bias is a perspective that affects how people see an issue.  Of course, everyone will have an opinion, but bias is separable from opinion.  An author’s bias is his/her particular viewpoint, related to a range of things such as: political beliefs, community investment, place of residence, employment, age, or religion.  S/he may believe that we should ban plastic bags (an opinion), and s/he may belong to the Sierra Club (indicating an environmentalist bias).  Someone may believe that Texas should allow natural gas exploration with minimal regulation (an opinion), but s/he may work for British Petroleum (indicating a pro-corporate bias).  

To the best of your ability, explain what bias this author demonstrates in his/her writing. How can you identify the author’s bias?  Consider, for instance, the following as indications of bias:
* Author: Who is the author? What is their stake in making this argument?  
* Audience and Publication: Who is this written for? Where is this published? What does that tell you, if anything, about the perspective?  

Explain also, how this bias comes forth in the writing.  In the article itself, you might look at:
* Alternative views: How, if at all, does the author recognize and address opposing viewpoints?  
* Language: Does the author use language that indicates one side of a viewpoint?
